async mig 0003 (#2870)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/docs/self-host/configure/async-migrations/0003-fill-person-distinct-id2.mdx

---
title: Migration guide - 0002_fill_person_distinct_id2
sidebar: Docs
showTitle: true
---

[`0002_fill_distinct_id2`](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog/blob/master/posthog/async_migrations/migrations/0003_fill_person_distinct_id2.py) is an async migration added to to migrate the data from the old `person_distinct_id` table to the new `person_distinct_id2` table.

> The reason this is needed is for faster `person_distinct_id` queries as the old schema worked off of (`distinct_id`, `person_id`) pairs, making it expensive to for our analytics queries, which need to map from `distinct_id` -> latest `person_id`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is needed for faster `person_distinct_id` queries as the old schema worked off of (`distinct_id`, `person_id`) pairs, making it expensive for our analytics queries, which need to map from `distinct_id` to the latest `person_id`. 
```

The new schema works off of `distinct_id` columns, leveraging `ReplacingMergeTrees` with a version column we store in postgres.

We migrate teams one-by-one to avoid running out of memory.

The migration strategy:

>     1. write to both pdi and pdi2 any new updates (done prior to this migration)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. Write to both pdi and pdi2 any new updates (done prior to this migration)
```

>     2. insert all non-deleted (`team_id`, `distinct_id`, `person_id`) rows from pdi into pdi2 (this migration)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    2. Insert all non-deleted (`team_id`, `distinct_id`, `person_id`) rows from `person_distinct_id` into `person_distinct_id2` (this migration)
```

    3. Once migration has run, we only read/write from/to pdi2.

## FAQ

> ### Is it dangerous for this migration to be in error state?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Is it dangerous for this migration to be in an errored state?
```
